[Music]
Bloomberg Audio Studios podcasts, radio,
news.
[Music]
Hello and welcome to another episode of
the OddLots podcast. I'm Joe Weisenthal.
And I'm Tracy Aloway. Tracy, here's
something that surprised me. Okay. So,
it's 2025.
I would have thought, you know, are you
surprised it's 2025? I'm surprised we
made it this long. I'm surprised.
I'm surprised, you know, and I think
back to 2021 and like the crypto boom of
that era and the stock the spack mania
and all that stuff, that craziness. Like
I sort of thought to some extent that
would have been a little bit more flash
in the pan because you know like 99 2000
a couple years later like people were
not talking about.com stocks like two
years later and because I'm like I I
thought it was going to be a repeat of
that all of this retail obsession with
options and call options and speculation
etc. I thought that would be a thing,
you know, short phenomenon. A bunch of
people lose their money in 2022 and 2023
when some of that stuff busts and then
they lose interest and they go on to
other things and sort of forget about
trading for a while. But I don't think
that was an incorrect assumption on my
part. I think people discovered that
they really enjoy losing money. It is um
Yes, they certainly Okay. Genuinely,
what I would say is this all started in
the pandemic, right? To some Yeah, to
some extent. But I think crypto opened
the door to this idea that you can have
a number on a screen and just bet
whether it's going to go up or down like
basically a synthetic number almost,
right? It's just this token. And then
what happened during the pandemic is
everyone was really bored. GameStop
became a thing. Uh everyone kind of
discovered that Momentum was uh maybe
more fun to play uh than boring stuff
like Value. And I was, you know, it did
honestly feel like a cultural shift when
it came to the way people were thinking
about trading. And I'm not I guess I'm
not as surprised that it's it's
continued to this day. And if anything,
this sort of tokenization of the stock
market, people playing options, people
playing crypto has become bigger than
ever. It is this cultural shift. It's
also like everything has a price now,
which I think is very important. Like
today, like we're constantly looking at
prices for politics right now. We're
constantly looking for prices related to
geopolitical events on sites like Kelshi
or Poly Market etc. It has expanded so
much so there's crypto, there's options
trading there, etc. Like we are like
drenched in a culture of like there's a
price on something, there's a thing
that's going on, you can trade it. And I
now think, you know, it's going to be
with us forever because it clearly was
not just like a uh, you know, a one-year
sort of zer era everyone bored at home
phenomenon. Well, it's not just that you
could trade it. You can trade it really
easily now, right? You can just open up
your phone. Um, some things you can
trade 24 hours a day and just make or
lose money as you choose. I love uh I
love making or losing money as I choose.
Anyway, one of the companies that we
really associate with the sort of boom
in retail participation that era and
that of course is uh Robin Hood, the
company that uh was uh famous for being
the first to introduce free stock
trading which is kind of mind-blowing
and lots of people use it. For me, many
people was their introduction to trading
options and stocks particularly during
the pandemic associated with the meme
stock era which kind of still exists.
Anyway, we have the perfect guest. Go
on. What were we going to say? I was
going to say Robin Hood in my mind like
definitely caught the wave of this
cultural shift at exactly the right
time. But it's also in my mind like an
ode to the importance of user interface.
Like genuinely the app is just more
interesting, more fun. I guess some
people would say more easy to use than a
lot of other things. This sounds like an
ad. I don't mean it to be, but I
remember for instance when uh you know
when you used to make trades on Robin
Hood and you would get like a little
confetti animation every time you did
it. Like can you imagine TDM trade or
like Schwab or something doing something
like that? Uh the one other thing I'll
say about them is they're doing
phenomenally well. The stock is like
back at like basically at all-time
highs. It's not just a company that
offers free trades. I think they have
like nine different units at a hund00
million annual run rate raid. Truly, I
think it's becoming a juggernaut.
Anyway, thrilled to say we have it CEO
and founder Vlad Tennv on the podcast
today. So, in studio, Vlad, thank you so
much for coming on OddLog. Thrilled to
finally be chatting with you. Thank you
for the warm welcome. It's great to be
here. that cohort that came into markets
in like 2020 and 2021 that sort of you
know the whatever that cohort was do
they behave differently today than say
the 2019
cohort or the 2018 cohort is there
something about them that if you look at
say trading in April during the
volatility is there are they are they
different
yeah so I I should rewinding four five
years at this point. Yeah. Long time ago
now. There were lots of people that came
into the market for the first time in
2019 and and 2020. Uh I think right
before the pandemic, I was in New York.
Uh and and I remember that visit because
it was sort of like before everything
got weird. We announced 10 million
approved accounts on the platform, which
was a crazy number for us. But um Robin
Hood was already quite big even even
before the pandemic started. So we had
10 million approved accounts. It was
like pretty clear that we had created
sort of the new era of retail investing
because before the pandemic we were a
series D company. So like latestage
private company. I think the valuation
was something like 7 billion. We had a
few hundred million in annual run rate
revenue and basically the entire
industry ended up having to replicate
our business model in order to survive
and not all of them could survive as
independent entities. You know TDMIR
trade had to get folded into Schwab.
Erade, which was sort of like the the
leader of the prior disruptive era in
retail trading, which was the the.com
era, had to get folded into Morgan
Stanley to to survive as a standalone
company. And so we we were already, I
mean, we we had already accelerated and
kind of
turned back the clock. Everyone was
saying retail trading and investing was
over. Everyone was indexing into ETFs.
Passive was the new thing. So there was
a lot of skepticism, but we we kind of
inverted that. And then you had the
pandemic where pretty much across all of
our business metrics, which we already
thought were doing well, we kind of
increased an order of magnitude. And I
think the behavior of customers
as a result of the pandemic is a bit of
an intricate question because there have
been so many things that happened in the
macro since then and we have so many
different types of customers. So to like
dramatically oversimplify, you could
think of Robin Hood as having two
diametrically different classes of
customers. One is the active trader. Uh
and and these are the folks to to give
like a motorport analogy, right? The
active traders are the folks that are
like motorheads like they care about
performance. They care about having like
really fast cars. They want to be at the
frontier of technology and innovation.
These are the people posting lost porn
on Wall Street Bets, right? Not
necessarily. I think some of them are. I
think that that's a more general Can we
talk about lost porn later, too? I'm
fascinated by that. But yeah, keep
going. Keep going. These are the folks
that are like strapped into their battle
stations and have like nine. They're
monitoring the situation. Exactly. Some
of them are incredibly sophisticated and
wealthy and they even have Bloomberg
terminals or good. It would have been
sort of like the Bloomberg terminal
customer and and so that's like a higher
net worth very active group small group
but premium and then we have to to come
back to the motorsport analogy the folks
that buy minivans right the mass market
they just want to invest they want a
relatively hands-free and sort of like
low friction way of investing and saving
for the long term And we we have
products that serve both of those. So we
we want to be number one in the active
trader market. We're rapidly we're
rapidly gaining market share there. But
also we want to be the place where if
you're a millennial or Gen Z customer,
you put all of your wealth. So you
deposit your bank account uh direct
deposit in there. You do all of your
spending with us with our credit card.
Of course, you do your trading, but you
also have your retirement account, your
long-term passive investments as well.
So, we're kind of focused on both of
these things with two very different
customer bases. And I say it's
oversimplifying because you also have
customers that have both of these
behaviors. So a lot of our active
traders, they also need banking tools,
they need spending, they have a passive
portfolio which can be larger elsewhere,
but not everyone is an active trader.
And so um also since co you had a
whipssaw of low rates, zero interest
rate environment, which made stocks and
more speculative, higher growth
investments more attractive. But then we
whipsaw to the highest interest rate
environment we've seen in multiple
decades. And then Robin Hood had to
respond very rapidly and aggressively to
survive in that environment. And we
introduced things like retirement like
the highest APY in the industry on cash
so that you could earn interest while
your cash was sitting there. And you
know just a ton of diversification of
the business so that our customers who
became less interested in trading during
that time Yeah. could could find ways
to, you know, t take advantage of the
environment and capitalize with their
strategies. So, I know one of the um
initial competitive advantages you had
was the the zero trading fees, but
beyond that, you know, I mentioned in
the intro that like I honestly think
Robin Hood is sort of a I guess a story
about the importance of user interface.
And some people would say that's a great
thing. You know, users can come on and
you can transfer money relatively
quickly. Um, it's very easy to set up
and execute a trade. You can basically
do it without typing very much while
you're sitting at a bar or in a
restaurant or whatever. But, you know,
you also have things like the screen
itself is very colorful. It photographs
well so that people can post those
screenshots on forums like Wall Street
Bets. I guess my question is like to
what extent would you attribute the
success of the company versus old school
competitors to that user interface or
maybe the gamification of stock market
trading which you really you know you
played into at exactly the right moment.
I reject the uh gamification premise. Um
you don't think uh the the app is
designed really well. I think it's
designed well, but I think when when I
think about So, obviously I grew up as a
as a gamer, so I'm I'm a bit of a a
student of traditional gamification. And
when you say gamification, to me it
means, you know, leaderboards, social
dynamics, and people claim we do all of
that, but we actually do none of it. I
think the reason Robin Hood was
successful in the early days is that we
offered something that nobody else
offered, which was commission-free
trading. And I I think the reality is if
I look at the design of the Robin Hood
app and old screenshots of it, I don't
think it was particularly easy to use. I
mean, it was easier to use than the
competition maybe because we weren't
really competing against traditional
technology companies that are known for
user interface, but but I think the
reality was that the value proposition
was so strong that people could actually
put up with a lot of cruff in the user
interface to just get the the core value
which which was commission free trading
and investing. I think over time what
happens is as sort of like the unique
thing we had commission free trading
became universal there was like a
competitive dynamic where the the
services that reduce friction there's
just a natural force to to make the
services less frictionful and more easy
to use and and I think you kind of see
that across industries and that just
comes from paying close attention to the
users looking at their pain points and
having a system where you just like
systematically reduce those pain points.
Like we we literally spend time sitting
with users watching them use the
product, see the points where they get
confused and and try to try to fix it.
And and I think you'll see that in in
any technology company, but you know,
most companies have become technology
companies at this point. any any company
that's like doing a reasonable job, I
think, will will come to the level where
they're actually doing user feedback and
iterations on design based on it. If you
don't do that nowadays, you'll you'll
essentially not survive in the in the
marketplace.
[Music]
Just going back though to that um 2021
or 2020 cohort, you said something
interesting which is that some people
trade and they have like a more passive
long-term book there, you know, not uh
people people do both. The word
maturation, I don't know, a little
condescending, but has there been a
maturation of that base in some sense
where people who initially got into
trading because it looked fun or was
exciting or they were bored, etc. Those
customers over time of like, oh, and
also long-term buy and hold and indexing
is also something that's probably a good
idea. Like, do you see growth among that
cohort in terms of what they're
interested in? Generally every person
ends up have having a need to invest now
like an actual invest not just trade
when you say yeah yeah so not everyone
actually sticks with trading and becomes
an active trader. Uh a lot of people
trade more actively at first and then
eventually end up doing like more
passive investing. Interesting. mostly
because they don't, if you talk to these
people, they don't want to put in the
time to like spend. They have other
things to do. So, they prefer all of
their investments to be hands-off. Some
people end up trading a lot. And I I do
believe that it's a skill that you could
actually get better at and improve at.
And, you know, not not everyone actually
wants to put in the time and effort to
do that. And so we serve those people
with other tools, you know, retirement
accounts. We have a new product that we
rolled out called Robin Hood strategies
that you just deposit money and it'll
invest for you and of course give you
the rale. Is that like copy trading or
is this different? It's it's a digital
advisory product. Okay. So it's a uh
yeah we have a registered investment
advisor and it will just invest. Is it
closer to like Betterment or something
like that sort of business like the sort
of robo? Yeah, it's similar to a robo
except there's a couple of interesting
elements. One is your fee is capped.
It's capped at $250 per year if you have
100,000 in your account. So most robo
products, even though they're lower cost
than traditional advisors, get more
expensive for you the more money you put
in there. And and we thought that was
like fundamentally broken. As you put
more money, the service should get more
compelling for you. you should feel like
you're getting more value because the
overall relationship to Robin Hood is is
much more valuable. So we sort of like
inverted the model so that it actually
on a percentage basis gets cheaper the
more money you have. And then uh also we
have these personalized insights every
time something happens to your
portfolio. You can read about it and why
we made that change and you can also
listen to us explain it via audio which
has been really really popular for uh
for our customers. Well, this leads into
something that I want to ask you
actually which is you're doing all these
different things now and you clearly
have ambitions to be a sort of like
one-stop shop for everyone's financial
needs. How do you actually decide which
new products or which new capabilities
to expand into? Is it a case of like
okay well people are on the platform
they're trading so maybe they would be
interested in some sort of robo advisory
service or is it you look at the
competitive landscape and you think like
well this company has you know they're
using cobalt or something like that and
they can't do what we can do with a new
tech stack and so there's an opportunity
there. How do you assess all those
different opportunities then ultimately
decide what you want to do? Yeah,
basically our business strategy falls
into three buckets and you can kind of
align that with time horizon arcs. So we
have sort of like a near-term arc which
we're in the climax of right now which
is to be the number one platform for
active traders. If you're an active
trader, you know, if you're one of these
people that has the six terminals in
front of you and you've got your battle
station, oh yeah, we want to make it
clear that you're at a disadvantage
using any other platform. And these
folks are at the frontier of technology
and innovation. So, uh 24 so uh Robin
Hood 24-hour market is an example there.
It's not just about better tools and
interfaces, although that's a part of
it. It's also having things that are not
available elsewhere. 24-hour market
being probably the best example there.
And that's that's become very very
popular. And you're literally at a
disadvantage if you're not using Robin
Hood because if you need to manage your
risk on a Sunday night, our our platform
offers access to equity markets and you
know those aren't easily found
elsewhere. So that's the near-term arc.
Then we have sort of a medium five-year
arc which is being number one in wallet
share for the next generation. And
that's millennials and Gen Z for now.
But we don't want to also get stuck in
the millennial and Gen Z bucket. We We
always want to be relevant to the needs
of the next generation as they evolve.
Of course. Yes. Wait alpha. What
generation are you saying you are? I'm
Gen X. You're Gen X. Well, you're in the
other direction more Gen Alpha. I
thought you were saying that you're
really young. No, no, no. I want to make
sure that there's still financial
services that cater to old people. No,
no. Gen Gen X. I I would say it's a
simplification. I mean, there's Gen X
and and baby boomers that love Robin
Hood. I think the the common ground is
actually less your age and more how
digitally savvy you are. Like, if you're
comfortable doing digital banking and
financial services on your phone, you
know, you could be 80 years old and
really enjoy Robin Hood, but you know,
some people, particularly as they're
older, prefer to go in person and uh
talk to a human. And I think we're a
lagard in developing those types of
services. So the the second arc,
medium-term arc of being the place where
we put all of your money, we basically
look at uh a few things there. One is
where are people withdrawing to? If you
take your money out of Robin Hood to do
something, can we just better serve that
within our ecosystem? So, you know, for
example, a lot of people took money off
of Robin Hood to pay their bills. So, we
saw that and we thought that was a great
opportunity to just allow them to pay
their bills via us. So, we launched the
Robin Hood Gold card, which, you know,
in my opinion, I'm I'm biased, is the
best credit card on the market by a wide
margin. 3% cash back on all categories,
which you have to be a high net worth
individual to get, coupled with a very
nice user interface that lets you create
virtual cards on demand. You can add
your whole family, help them build their
credit. So that that's just an example
of of how we think about it. But for
each of these products individually, I
don't think it's enough to come up with
the category. I think we have to have a
great idea for how we can make the
economics better for users and also how
to make the user experience better. And
when we have that combination, I think
that's the ingredient to a successful
Robin Hood product. I should mention the
third arc because that's the long-term
one and it's pretty relevant here given
the uh event we just had in the south of
France. It's called building the number
one global financial ecosystem and what
that means that's all just that. Yes. So
that's a long-term arc. So it's going to
take a while uh like 10 years but
basically it involves expanding Robin
Hood across two linearly independent
vectors. One is from US only to fully
global and the other is from retail only
to business and institutional and that's
where we get into really interesting
platform aspects like tokenization. So
let me talk to me about equity tokeniz.
Here's my question. In what year? Tell
me about equity tokenization. You know,
thinking about like a a stable coin is a
tokenized dollar, right? And so
obviously a you could do the same thing
where you have like a a stock Tesla
whatever and crypto forum, etc. And it
trades on a chain 24/7. In what year
will I be able to trade any stock 24/7
onchain? Well, if you are a European
customer, definitely 2025. So, what we
announced in in our event to catch a
token in the south of France is stock
tokens by Robin Hood, which are
essentially tokenized US equities and
ETFs. Uh we also did a giveaway of
tokenized shares of SpaceX, which is
very exciting. And that the the
technology for both is ready right now.
It's working for tokenized equities. You
can trade them 245 right now, but 247 is
coming over the next few months. And
we'll also unlock full onchain
capabilities. So, swapping,
collateralized lending and borrowing,
anything you can do in DeFi. So, the
barrier to adoption in the US, yeah,
kind of mirrors what we saw in
stablecoin. The technology is there.
It's it's available in Europe. It'll be
available in a bunch of jurisdictions.
It's all just regulatory clarity, which
we're we're hopeful will come later this
year, but uh it's not a technological
barrier by any means. Why is
tokenization a part of it if we're not
really solving a technological problem,
but a regulatory problem? Well,
tokenization solves a lot of problems,
but the necessary piece to make it
available to the US is is essentially a
regulatory issue. We just need rules of
crypto regulation and for the private
stock side which is also an interesting
element because there you start to
really see the benefits of tokenization.
What does tokenization do or allow you
to do? Yeah. So tokenization takes an
asset and puts it on chain and
essentially uh makes it tradable 24/7
just like a stock or a crypto asset
would be. So you can buy or sell it on a
crypto exchange. I can buy or sell a
stock, right? Like what are we doing
here? What is the tokenization
accomplish that you can't just do on a
database that you can buy stock on?
Yeah. So good question. I think the
answer is slightly different if we're
talking about a customer in the US
versus internationally. And I'll explain
why. So in the US, we already have a
pretty robust financial system. Uh Robin
Hood exists right and you can onboard on
Robin Hood and buy stocks. You can buy
them 245 which is pretty good. So there
the delta between token the tokenized
experience and what you have currently
would be expanding to 24/7 and also
eventually when we plug into DeFi making
all of the DeFi aspects which are right
now a little bit more niche but
incredibly powerful available. So
collateralized lending and borrowing
self-custody self-custody is
interesting. So right now your stock in
your Robin Hood or or other brokerage
account is kind of locked into a broker,
right? So let's say that broker has
issues like a tech technical outage.
You're kind of stuck. But if the stock
were to be tokenized, not only would it
become seamless to use another broker,
you just kind of attach to your wallet,
but the reliability would be much
higher. I also don't have to worry about
losing my seed phrase when I have stock
in a traditional brokerage. Is that
something that people are going to have
to think about if they're trading
tokenized equity? It's less concerning
with traditional assets because there's
always going to be a process to connect
your token with the real asset. So, you
know, it's it's a big problem with
Bitcoin. Yeah. For example, because
there's no like physical representation.
But if you have a tokenized dollar or an
asset, you will be able to there will be
a process where you can claim the actual
real thing. Sorry, just to press on this
further. I'm trying to understand. Okay,
so a tokenized equity and it's going to
I think what's the chain you're using?
Arbitum like uh arbitum at first, but
not for long. We're we're actually
rolling out our own blockchain. Oh,
you're going to have a base competitor.
Yeah, in in a way. I mean it's just a
layered build on top of arbitum though.
Uh it's it's going to be on top of
Ethereum. It's a layer two. So Okay. So
you're building you're you're building
your own Ethereum layer 2 setting aside
Europe or the United States. Random
person who has uh some USDC in
Indonesia, will they be able to interact
with this and then have Tesla exposure
eventually? Yes, that's the plan. And so
like right now if I want to own Tesla
shares through Robin Hood like I tell
you my name and I presumably give you
some identifying information etc. But in
the future in theory anyone will be able
to get exposure to these assets without
actually having to reveal anything about
themselves because they're just
interacting pseudo anonymously on chain.
In large part, yes. There's some caveats
where depending on the jurisdiction, we
might have to like KYC some elements of
the experience. For example, minting and
burning the actual physical stocks uh
and turning them back and forth into
tokens will likely require KYC. But
yeah, in the same way that you can
transfer a tokenized stable coin on
chain, you'll be able to transfer
tokenized stocks identically. And kind
of in the same for the same reasons that
stable coins have become more popular
and have really gained mass adoption
outside of the US first, just because
outside of the US it's much harder to
get a hold of US dollars.
tokenized stocks I think will gain
a ton of adoption outside of the US
before the benefits and the technology
acrewing to the US and and kind of
disrupting the the the structure here.
And so just to be clear, if I have a
tokenized stock, I can stake that,
right, and use it to do other things.
You will be able to connect it Yeah. to
to all of the DeFi capabilities. Now,
exactly what those are, I think we're
we're going to have a developer
ecosystem and they're going to have to
build a whole bunch of things, but yeah,
you you can put it in pools into
collateralized lending pools. Staking is
interesting because technically staking
is dedicating tokens and resources to
support the network itself. And and so
when when you say staking a stock, a lot
of people actually mean lending it,
which which I think will be able to to
be done eventually. But um could you
stake it to support the network? Sort of
old school as well. I think the way that
that would actually work is you'd have
to convert that into the network gas
token. Um and and you would stake it
that way, but I think it's a little bit
early for us to to get into yet. So you
mentioned that you're only doing this on
arbitrum for a short amount of time and
then you're transitioning to to your own
tech.
Why? I guess is my question. like why
start there um and then do your your own
um layer versus just starting out with
your own thing. I think that the um the
ambition is to actually make this the
best chain for real world assets. So
we're starting with stocks. We're also
doing private stocks as well. But we we
want to tokenize everything that people
would want to make tradable. So you can
imagine real estate in the future. You
can imagine carbon credits. Uh really
anything. But if you're going to use
Ethereum, then why not start out with
Ethereum rather than Arbitum? Ethereum
is is the base layer one. And the
problem with transacting directly on
Ethereum is that it the the fees can be
quite high. So that that's why Arbitum,
which is a layer on top of Ethereum,
they they've been able to essentially
consolidate lots and lots of
transactions and sync up to the base
layer 1 chain at an infrequent cadence.
Oh, I see. And that way you can kind of
like split up what would be a large
transaction fee into lots and lots of
small transactions and get the cost down
from, you know, high cone high
congestion. you know, Ethereum could be
multiples, multiple dollars per
transaction down to
like individual cents, you know, a
handful of cents. And I know we've been
having this conversation for years now,
but what happens to the gas fees? What
if this really takes off and people
start using this service on mass? Yeah,
I mean uh the gas the gas fees are very
scalable. Part part of the benefits of
being a layer on top of the chain is to
some degree we we'll be running
sequencers and we'll be able to to
handle the gas fees. And I think that
the the goal would be for for this to be
essentially transaction cost free or
very very low cost.
[Music]
you obviously as part of the core
company competitive advantage is
building tech, right? And building and
one of the things that you did several
years ago is you built your own clearing
stack instead of um you know using uh
some uh third party company, I forget
what it was, you know, could you in your
vision for Robin Hood, could you ever
see whitelisting some of your own tech?
You know, I think about like Amazon and
eventually it built its own computers
and then it started selling them and
then it started selling its warehouse
capacity. As you build up these
capacities, could you see uh selling it
to other fintexs or access to these
platforms? Yeah. And I think tokenized
uh stock tokens is a great example of
that. I think that that could become a
standard if you're another fintech Yeah.
and you know you're you you may not be
offering stocks to your customers. Maybe
you have a big international presence
and you want to add stocks. Uh you would
just be able to integrate with our chain
and then those stocks would be available
to your customers. We also have a
service called Robin Hood Connect which
essentially took um our trading services
that were that we've optimized so finely
for our own firstparty app and made them
available to third party developers. So,
if you're a non-custodial wallet
provider like a Moonshot or Uniswap or
MetaMask, uh you have this problem of
how how do you streamline
people getting their dollars into crypto
and back out to dollars if they want to.
So Robin Hood Connect offers um you know
one of the lowest rates to do that just
because we've optimized that so much
that you know handing that out and and
giving that service to third parties is
is now easy for us to do. So we're going
to continue to to iterate on that. the
chain will be full-fledged developer
platform made available to third parties
and uh we we always will continue to
look for opportunities in the future to
have our tech uh I I wouldn't call it
white labeled but at least um made
available to institutions and and other
customers. You know what's really
interesting to me? I was thinking about
like several years ago when crypto
started taking off and I used to make
fun of these people when crypto start
when crypto started taking off and you'd
get these conferences and people would
go on panels and they say well we're
really we're really interested in
blockchain technology bitcoin butchain
we're really interested in blockchain
technology not bitcoin and I never
really knew what it meant and it didn't
seem to go anywhere and it just seemed
like a way like okay if I like worked
for like a big whatever big legacy
financial institution. I want to sound
smart. I want to get invited to panels.
I say like, "Oh, we're really excited
about the blockchain here." Totally. But
actually, it kind of sounds like maybe
they're being vindicated a little bit.
Well, you've noticed that I'm not using
the word blockchain or web 3, but you're
using we're talking about the you're
talking about the ch the idea of chains.
Yeah. And like I might like I'm kind of
sitting here in 2025 and it's like maybe
I shouldn't have made fun of those
people as much as I did because it does
seem like chains per se as opposed to
coins are kind of where a lot of the
action is. I think you should make fun
of those people a little bit because
people have been talking a lot about
this stuff for many many years. There's
been a lot of talk including from me and
you know more recently put tomato
lettuce on the blockchain putt we're
going to put you know fancy I still
fancy purses on the blockchain which
maybe it'll do it'll happen but um yeah
there's been a lot of talk and not much
action. So yeah me personally uh I try
very hard not to brand stuff and say
it's the next big thing. I I just want
to make products available that people
use and and I think the best buzzwords
come out organically because
consumers are actually calling things
and and the things arise naturally,
right? And I think that there's a
running gag that I'm going to make fun
of him less though. I really am. Yeah,
mass adoption is is a year away. It's
always kind of been a year away.
Institutional money is always a year
away, too. But it seems like it's
happening. But uh yeah, I I think that
we're we're finally at the precipice of
crypto technology not being just Bitcoin
and memecoins and actually being applied
to things that are useful in the real
world. I'm kind of convinced. I will
believe it when I see it. Um but if you
have tokenized stocks, what what
regulatory regime does that actually
fall under in the US at least? Like is
that a security or is that a derivative
or is that something else? And how are
you navigating that aspect of it? Well,
so they're not they're not uh
permissible in the US yet, but our
belief is that in the ideal world, they
would not be treated as a derivative.
Okay? They would instead be treated as a
security kind of par pasu uh traditional
stocks. So basically all of the
protections, all of the structure that
the SEC can kind of promulgate to
individual stocks should pass through to
stock tokens as well. And and our belief
is actually that this doesn't require
new legislation. The SEC can basically
make the rules. They can do rulemaking.
They can even do relief in advance of of
rulem like they did for reggga ATS if
you guys are familiar a few decades ago.
M so we we've been working with them and
I think actually the folks at the SEC
Hester and the crypto task force you
know we've been engaging in a lot of
roundts including tokenization
I think they're pretty keen to make this
happen and I actually think the EU
launch and and showing that you know
these tokens are useful it works well
customers love it it's a huge efficiency
improvement and infrastructure
improvement behind the scenes that makes
all kinds of things that they care about
easier. My my hope is that that'll help
kind of spur innovation and and spur
activity and acceptance worldwide, not
just in Europe. The changing
administration must be must have been
huge for you. Uh it was definitely a
positive because um you know pro
probably over the much of the past much
of the period of 2020 to 2024 we had to
play defense. our business was under
assault from multiple angles and I think
at first when the administration changed
having that not be a huge factor was a
huge relief. Just just not having
regulation by enforcement and not having
to like spend a significant amount of
mind share and resources on defending
our business from from this onslaught.
And then that shifted into, okay, well,
we we've got to exercise a muscle that
we haven't really had to exercise
before, which is there's an openness to
create new rules and to like actually
move forward and and encourage
innovation. What does that look like?
What does it look like to actually work
with an administration that wants to get
on the front foot and make the US the
leader? And I I think that's been very
welcome. Yeah, I think you saw with the
stable coin bill, you'll see with market
structure that uh I think we'll be able
to execute on this. What's it been like
working with them? Just give us some
color of like the actual process in this
administration versus the last one.
They've been moving fast, which is
pretty amazing. I mean, uh Bo Hines and
David Saxs care a lot about this. They
care a lot about us being number one in
in crypto as well as AI. They've been
engaging industry and they're also like
allergic to bureaucracy. I think in the
in the previous administration, frankly,
it was it was hard to get a meeting,
right? Uh first of all, I I don't know
for how long people weren't going into
offices, but like it was remote
meetings. It's hard to get this stuff
done remotely. to you made a substantive
difference in terms that that made a
substantive difference because I think
it's really hard to solve complex
problems with multiple stakeholders
remotely. So even just something as
simple as like having a roundt wasn't
really done couldn't couldn't really be
done in the previous administration
because they were all it was all just
virtual chats everyone was working
remotely. I have another crypto related
question. I some one of the things I
wonder about is who makes money in
crypto and by that I mean like at one
point there was a lot of excitement
about the specific L1s right so Ethereum
versus Salana etc but it's not clear to
me that they're going to like collect
tons of fees especially you know it's
like you're using a layer 2 I don't know
how much value or you're build and then
you're going to build a layer two I
don't know how much value actually then
occurs to uh say Ethereum circle
recently came public doing incredibly
Well, that business is seems like it's
insanely good. On the other hand, they
pay a lot of their money to Coinbase for
uh distribution, etc. So, I don't really
know if they're going to like make a ton
of money in the long time. Maybe it'll
be the distribution. Are you going to,
by the way, are you going to get in on
that? Like, will Circle like at some
point will you be collecting money from
the stable coin issuers to the customers
who hold that coin on your platform?
Well, we we announced last year that we
joined the dollar global network, which
is a consortium with Paxos, Kraken, a
bunch of other uh companies to create a
new stable coin that's going to be
global in nature and we'll pay very
competitive interest to holders. So, the
goal would actually be to take much of
those economics and pay them in the form
of interest to customers. Because if you
think about it, if you're if you're
holding, you know, USDC or most or
tether, most other stable coins, uh
you're not getting interest, which is
Coinbase users are getting interest
indirectly though, right? If they hold
USDC on Coinbase and Circle remits money
to Coinbase and then Coinbase remits
money to the user, they are they are
getting rewards. Uh which is which is
true, but I think it's a little bit
different than interest. And I think
it's also not universal. I mean, you
have to be holding it custodially. You
can't be just like holding it on chain.
And uh you're certainly not getting it
if you're using Tether or or one of
these others. So yeah, I think I think
they can get rewards and incentives, but
uh I think over time they'll have to
they'll have to get interest as well
because if you're not getting interest,
you don't really have an incentive to
hold US dollars in the form of stable
coin. The incentive would just be Yeah.
Right. convert it immediately and put it
in a bank, which I think most crypto
people would tell you it it kind of
defeats the whole point of uh of using
crypto. I think internationally it's
okay because those people just want you
get a convenience service. Yeah. So you
can you can get rid of uh I think it's a
good enough value proposition for now.
But I think over time as the interest is
unlocked um the the best stable coins
will will actually the ones that
ultimately gain market share are going
to pay a very competitive interest rate.
So that's going to become an axis for
for competition and the end user will
benefit. So, so actually to uh to cut to
the chase, I'm not sure that's a
long-term sustainable large revenue
stream. I think it'll get competed away.
Maybe no one will make money in crypto
and it'll be the benefit of the
consumer. I Well, okay, this is exactly
the question I wanted to ask. Okay, so
who makes money here? When I think about
capital markets, like if I'm an old
school investor or an old school
economist thinking about capital
markets, I think like, okay, well, an
investor comes along and they give a
company money uh and they get equity in
return and the company uses that money
to go out and expand their business and
eventually they pay back the investor.
And then I look at investing nowadays,
I'm sure you've heard this criticism
before, but so much of it seems
extremely synthetic. you know, tokens
built on top of tokens on top of tokens.
I guess my question is like to you, what
is the actual purpose of capital markets
and this type of trading? I do think
that
there's a valuable purpose of of capital
formation. I think it's gotten a little
bit lost uh or or I'd say the retail
investor in the US has gotten
disconnected from that purpose because
not too many companies are going public
nowadays. I think past few months have
been an exception locally. But if you
look out broadly, you know, back in the
80s or late '7s, you used to be able to
get into a public company at IPO at a
pretty low valuation and kind of get a
thousandx or 10,000x return. I mean, if
you'd invested in Microsoft or Apple at
IPO, you you had a lot of upside left.
So, companies used to go public earlier.
Nowadays, you know, you've got SpaceX,
Open AI, companies that are worth
hundreds of hundreds of billions of
dollars still staying private and those
gains are acrewing to a smaller and
smaller
set of wealthy insiders. And I think
that's another potential for the
technology because, you know, as as I
mentioned, we release SpaceX tokens to
consumers as part of this um as part of
our to catch a token event. And what
that will do over time is you'll have
24/7 liquid markets and private stocks
as well. And uh I I think that's going
to be very exciting. And in in the US,
if those are permissible, which I think
requires the crypto stuff, but also a
relaxation of the accreditation
standards, I think things start to get
really interesting. Yeah. because then
you you unlock capital formation at a
greater scale and also uh participation
for retail in uh some of these great
opportunities like if you're retail and
you want to gain exposure to the AI boom
your options in the US are extremely
limited and I actually think that's a
huge problem because the AI boom is very
very consequential to everyday people
man the cir I'm also looking at the
circle IPO this thing is insane it goes
up like 20% % a day. I have a question
about IPOs. I'd love to get your take on
this. Um, every time there's an IPO that
goes up, you have like the sort of like
N is like actually this was bad and they
left all this money on the table. There
have been alternative routes to IPOing
for decades actually late 90s Google
famously did a Dutch auction when it
became public etc. Yet the IPO as a
thing persists. Do you have a theory for
why? Like why is it that like the IPO
model where the big bank the big legacy
banks they get their allocation and
their best clients get this big bump etc
and the company leaves money on the
table. Why does it persist for so long
in your view? What does it say about
market? Is this a roundabout way of
asking why Robin Hood IPOed? No, I mean
yeah sure maybe but like what is it
about the traditional IPO that's so
lindy? Uh well I think it's just uh
enshrined in regulatory. No, it's not.
The Google did a Dutch auction. There
clearly other ways to go. Spaxs existed
for they're coming back already. And yet
and yet good companies continue to
basically go by the IPO route. Yeah,
that's a good question. I I would say
those are all kind of variants of the
IPO that people have experimented with.
You have direct listings as well. Yeah.
Downside of course with the direct
listing is you can't raise primary
capital which I think is is useful to a
lot of companies like they do look at it
as a financing event. Yeah. So uh I I
think there will be some iteration and
some experimentation within the IPO
sandbox like we've seen. But I think you
you look at tokenization of private
companies. If we kind of pull on that
thread, that that presents an
interesting alternative to to companies
as well, both for raising primary
capital and for tapping into secondary
liquidity for shareholders. I think it's
not yet clear what the impact of that
will be long-term to capital markets,
but it's definitely coming. So, you
mentioned the um accredited investor
limitations regulations in the US, and
I've never I've never really decided how
I feel about them because, you know, on
the one hand, they're supposed to
protect uninformed retail investors, I
guess. On the other hand, they do seem
to lock people out of a lot of
opportunities in the market. And one
thing you hear from companies such as
Robin Hood is this idea of democratizing
finance. Like that is the buzz word and
the catch word and we're going to bring
all these opport
No, they talked about that with E Trade.
I I I was I was a day trader in 99. Also
peer-to-peer lending like they were all
over that. Okay. But on that note, fine.
We'll let you. They got it from us.
Okay. Okay. Okay. But on this note, like
is there a limit to how far you can
democratize finance or do you believe
there should be like any guard rails in
terms of investor access? I think any is
a big term. I mean obviously I can think
of some examples of things that
maybe shouldn't be uh democratized or at
least democratized first. like I I don't
know if retail needs to be trading
collateralized debt obligations or some
of these heavily institutional products,
but um I I think with private companies,
it's a little bit of an easier
discussion. Um I think that it's hard to
imagine an argument for why retail
should not have access to that. Like the
the an argument that on its face isn't
illogical. I mean, you have access to so
many things. You can just spend your
money on Amazon and buy all sorts of
trinkets that immediately lose value and
depreciate. You can buy meme coins,
right? So, the idea that those classes
of ways to spend your money are okay,
but buying open AI or SpaceX stock, I
think I think on its face, it's
illogical. either we have to ban a whole
bunch of other things that people do to
blow their money should be. Uh my issue
is that I think in a world where
everything is available, you induce a
lot of people to essentially find ways
to fraud to create fraud whereas a
trinket is a trinket. Anyway, I think uh
we have to let you go. We could talk for
uh a really long time. Will everything
be on chain in the future? I don't know
about everything. Okay. But I think
anything that people want to trade, buy
or sell, and and get liquidity on, uh,
will likely find its way on chain. All
right, Blood Tennov, thank you so much
for, uh, coming on Oddlash. That was a
blast. Thank you guys. Thank you.
[Music]
Tracy, I really can't believe the degree
to which like a blockchain I mean he
didn't say blockchain, but it's every
all these companies have their own
chain. So like Coinbase has its own
chain called base, Robin Hood with its
own chain. Like I thought that was so
ridiculous the idea like seven or eight
years ago and and it's a little
different like they're not putting
tomatoes on chain but like the change
themselves that where the coin is not
that important. It sort of took off in a
way that I wouldn't have guessed. Here's
my question. If you're a person right
now who is not trading crypto, yeah, is
there anything in your day-today life
that is, you know, trading or existing
or being tracked onchain? I don't really
think so. No, I don't think so. So, but
it does but So, we're still we're still
in the wait and see mode. People are
still talking about it. And yeah, I
guess like I'm I'm open to the idea that
chain technology is going to change
things and and make things different,
but I guess like why hasn't it happened
already? And then B, it sounds still
like the barrier isn't necessarily
technology. Like we have things that
would allow you to do this, but it's
still regulatory. I mean, it sounds like
the reason it didn't happen is because
all the Biden administration people were
working from home and they could they
didn't have round table. No, it does
sound like probably that is part of it.
the sort of changing regulatory
environment and the deep suspicion
towards crypto for better or worse uh on
the part of the Democratic party in the
US like obviously seems pretty real and
I do think it's seems like that between
the Genius Act moving forward in
Congress and obviously the changing of
the guard at the SEC there is a real
movement and to my mind it's not really
like and again I always sort of go back
um and think about our episodes with
Austin Campbell to my It's not like okay
like there is some benefit to me right
now in the existence of chains but the
idea that like legacy software for
reasons that we all know is never going
to get its act together to have
something like 247 trading for better or
worse I don't even know if 247 is
trading but some people want to do it
because some people want to trade at 3
p.m. in the afternoon and it sounds like
uh or what I suspect and I think is
probably like real or imminent is that
through change that that will uh that
that will be something that becomes
fairly common. I guess here's where I'm
coming from. It seems to me that a lot
of this is incremental rather than
revolutionary. And when people were
first talking about it, it was very much
in those revolutionary terms. And now it
just seems like, you know, like an
impiency
improvement. I I totally agree with
that. I mean, one thing this is
definitely not is some sort of like
cipher punk vision where people are
trading everything without the
government being able to look at it.
That is definitely true. But, you know,
like the efficiency improvement is
actually it's not nothing. Like, don't
get me wrong, it's not only not nothing.
It's not nothing. It's actually kind of
a surprise to me because the the um the
way people talked about, you know, the
thing with blockchains is that they're
decentralized and costly. And you
brought up the point of Ethereum gas
fees, but if everyone can have these
sort of basically low fee layer twos
because they're more they're in large
part centrally run, you sort of solve
some of the compute issues because
you're not you don't have to like uh
coordinate all these different nodes
around the world. It's the Robin Hood
chain. It's the Coinbase chain. It's
whatever.
Maybe it is more efficient than legacy
infrastructure that has been updated and
cobbled together for like literally
decades and will be here decades from
now. It's certainly true that you don't
hear the gas fee complaints the way you
used to, right? Like some of that's been
solved. All right. Well, should we leave
it there? Yeah, let's leave it there.
This has been another episode of the Odd
Thoughts podcast. I'm Tracy Aloway. You
can follow me at Tracy Aloway. And I'm
Jill Weisenthal. You can follow me at
the stalwart. Follow our guest Vlad
Tennv at Vladenev. Follow our producers
Kerman Rodriguez at Carmen Arman Dashel
Bennett at Dashbot and Kalebrooks at
Kalebrooks. For more OddLots content, go
to bloomberg.com/odlots
where we have a daily newsletter and all
of our episodes. And you can chat about
all of these topics 247 in our Discord,
discord.gg/odlots.
And if you enjoy all thoughts, if you
like it when we talk about the future of
trading, then please leave us a positive
review on your favorite podcast
platform. And remember, if you are a
Bloomberg subscriber, you can listen to
all of our episodes absolutely adree.
All you need to do is find the Bloomberg
channel on Apple Podcast and follow the
instructions there. Thanks for
listening.
[Music]